1. Project Context
Project Name: Ice Cream Formulation Engine (Refactor Phase) Description: A web-based application for calculating and balancing ice cream recipes based on scientific parameters (Fat, MSNF, PAC, POD). Current State: The codebase is a "rescue" project containing valuable core logic mixed with experimental, cluttered, and broken AI/Legacy features. Immediate Goal: We are establishing a stable Phase 1 MVP ("The Validator"). This requires isolating the core "Recipe Calculator" and hiding all other experimental features (Reverse Engineer, Paste Studio, Advanced AI Optimizers) to prevent confusion during development.

2. Objective
Primary Goal: Implement a Feature Flag system to hide non-core functionality from the UI and Routing system. Default State: The application must load directly into the Recipe Calculator view. All other tabs/links must be hidden when the flag is disabled.

3. Technical Specifications
Feature Flag Configuration
Environment Variable: NEXT_PUBLIC_ENABLE_ADVANCED

Default Value: false (Boolean string)

Affected Features:

Reverse Engineer

Paste Studio

Advanced Optimizers (Genetic Algo, PSO, LP)

Any "AI" labeled tabs currently in the nav.

Architecture Changes
Global Utility: A helper function isAdvancedMode() must be created to centralize the flag logic.

Navigation Component: The Sidebar/Navbar must conditionally render links based on this utility.

Routing (Optional): Routes for advanced features should ideally redirect to the home page if the flag is false.

4. Implementation Steps (Instructions for AI)
Step 1: Environment Setup
Check for an existing .env.local file. If not present, create it.

Add NEXT_PUBLIC_ENABLE_ADVANCED=false.

Step 2: Utility Function
Create a strict utility file at src/utils/featureFlags.js (or .ts if TypeScript).

Export a function isAdvancedMode() that returns true only if the environment variable explicitly equals the string 'true'.

Step 3: UI Cleanup (The "Hiding")
Analyze the file structure to locate the main Navigation component (common names: Sidebar, Navbar, AppLayout, or Layout).

Wrap the list items or buttons for "Reverse Engineer", "Paste Studio", and "Optimizer" in a conditional block:

JavaScript

{isAdvancedMode() && ( <Link ... /> )}
Ensure the Recipe Calculator link remains always visible and is the default active state.

Step 4: Routing Cleanup
Check App.js or the Next.js app/ directory.

Ensure the root path / renders the Recipe Calculator component, not a landing page or an experimental dashboard.

5. Success Criteria (Definition of Done)
Visual Check: When the app runs, the Sidebar only shows "Recipe Calculator" (and optionally "Settings").

Logic Check: Changing NEXT_PUBLIC_ENABLE_ADVANCED to true and restarting the server makes the hidden links reappear.

Code Check: No code is deleted; it is only hidden behind the logic gate.